guide: Uploading Objects to Amazon S3 and Saving References in Postgres in Next.js (#1703)
neondatabase/website: content/guides/next-upload-aws-s3.md

```shell shouldWrap
npm install @aws-sdk/client-s3 @aws-sdk/s3-request-presigner @neondatabase/serverless
```

The command installed the following libraries:

- `@aws-sdk/client-s3`: AWS SDK for JavaScript S3 Client for Node.js, Browser and React Native.
- `@aws-sdk/s3-request-presigner`: SDK to generate signed url for S3.
- `@neondatabase/serverless`: Neon's PostgreSQL driver for JavaScript and TypeScript.

Now, create a `.env` file at the root of your project. You are going to add the `OPENAI_API_KEY` you obtained earlier.

It should look something like this:

```shell shouldWrap
# AWS Environment Variables
AWS_KEY_ID="..."
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=".../...+"
AWS_S3_BUCKET_NAME="...-bucket-0"

# Postgres (powered by Neon) Environment Variable
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://neondb_owner:...@...-pooler.us-east-2.aws.neon.tech/neondb?sslmode=require"
```

Mow, let's move on to creating an API route to obtain a presigned URL to upload objects to.

## Create a Presigned URL with Amazon S3 SDK

[Presigned URLs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/ShareObjectPreSignedURL.html) allow you to upload large chunks of data directly at the source (here, `Amazon S3`).

> This saves you from the following caveats of a server-based upload operation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This saves you from a couple limitations of a server-based upload operation:
```

- maximum request payload restrictions (on a hosting service, especially in serverless)
- huge RAM required to process multiple large file buffers at the same time

> You will create an API endpoint that would accept the file name and it's content type that will be uploaded via a presigned URL. In Next.js, you can create an API endpoint by creating a `route.ts` file at any directory level inside the `app` directory. To use `/api/presigned` as the desired API route, create a file `app/api/presigned/route.ts` with the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will create an API endpoint that accepts the file name and it's content type to be uploaded via a presigned URL. In Next.js, you can create an API endpoint by creating a `route.ts` file at any directory level inside the `app` directory. To use `/api/presigned` as the desired API route, create a file `app/api/presigned/route.ts` with the following code:
```

import { NextResponse, type NextRequest } from "next/server";
import { getSignedUrl } from "@aws-sdk/s3-request-presigner";
import { S3Client, PutObjectCommand } from "@aws-sdk/client-s3";

export async function GET(request: NextRequest) {
  const accessKeyId = process.env.AWS_KEY_ID;
  const secretAccessKey = process.env.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY;
  const s3BucketName = process.env.AWS_S3_BUCKET_NAME;
  if (!accessKeyId || !secretAccessKey || !s3BucketName) {
    return new Response(null, { status: 500 });
  }
  const searchParams = request.nextUrl.searchParams;
  const fileName = searchParams.get("fileName");
  const contentType = searchParams.get("contentType");
  if (!fileName || !contentType) {
    return new Response(null, { status: 500 });
  }
  const client = new S3Client({
    region: "eu-north-1",
    credentials: {
      accessKeyId,
      secretAccessKey,
    },
  });
  const command = new PutObjectCommand({
    Bucket: s3BucketName,
    Key: fileName,
    ContentType: contentType,
  });
  const signedUrl = await getSignedUrl(client, command, { expiresIn: 3600 });
  if (signedUrl) return NextResponse.json({ signedUrl });
  return new Response(null, { status: 500 });
}
```

> The code above creates a S3 client using the `@aws-sdk/client-s3` SDK. Then, it uses the `getSignedUrl` utility (from `@aws-sdk/s3-request-presigner`) to sign the URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code above creates an S3 client using the `@aws-sdk/client-s3` SDK. Then, it uses the `getSignedUrl` utility (from `@aws-sdk/s3-request-presigner`) to sign the URL.
```

> Now, let's move on to building an endpoint to insert the reference to the uploaded object in Postgres (powered by Neon).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let's move on to building an endpoint to insert the reference to the uploaded object in Postgres.
```

## Save Reference to S3 objects in Postgres

> You will create an API endpoint that would accept the URL to the object publicly accessible. In this example, you are going to learn how to create a table in Postgres, and associate the object URL with a user, for demonstration purposes. To use `/api/user/image` as the desired API route, create a file `app/api/user/image/route.ts` with the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will create an API endpoint that accepts the URL to the publicly accessible object. In this example, we'll create a table in Postgres, and associate the object URL with a user, for demonstration purposes. To use `/api/user/image` as the desired API route, create a file `app/api/user/image/route.ts` with the following code:
```

    } catch (e) {
      return NextResponse.json({
        code: 0,
        message: e instanceof Error ? e.message : e?.toString(),
      });
    }
  }
  ```

  ```tsx {3,12,14,16-19}
  // File: app/api/user/image/route.ts

  import { neon } from "@neondatabase/serverless";
  import { NextResponse, type NextRequest } from "next/server";

  export async function POST(request: NextRequest) {
    const { objectUrl } = await request.json();
    if (!process.env.DATABASE_URL) return new Response(null, { status: 500 });
    const sql = neon(process.env.DATABASE_URL);
    try {
      // Create the user table if it does not exist
      await sql('CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS "user" (name TEXT, image TEXT)');
      // Mock call to get the user
      const user = "rishi"; // getUser();
      // Insert the user name and the reference to the image into the user table
      await sql('INSERT INTO "user" (name, image) VALUES ($1, $2)', [
        user,
        objectUrl,
      ]);
      return NextResponse.json({ code: 1 });
    } catch (e) {
      return NextResponse.json({
        code: 0,
        message: e instanceof Error ? e.message : e?.toString(),
      });
    }
  }
  ```
</CodeTabs>

> The code above defines a POST endpoint, which first, validates the presence of `DATABASE_URL` environment variable. Further, it creates a table named `user` if it does not exist, and inserts the record for a user named `rishi` with the object URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code above defines a POST endpoint, which first validates the presence of `DATABASE_URL` environment variable. Further, it creates a table named `user` if it does not exist, and inserts the record for a user named `rishi` with the object URL.
```

> Now, let's move on to learning how to call these APIs programtically in the front-end built with React.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let's move on to learning how to call these APIs in the front-end built with React.
```

    if (!file) return;
    const reader = new FileReader();
    reader.onload = async (event) => {
      const fileData = event.target?.result;
      if (fileData) {
        const presignedURL = new URL("/api/presigned", window.location.href);
        presignedURL.searchParams.set("fileName", file.name);
        presignedURL.searchParams.set("contentType", file.type);
        fetch(presignedURL.toString())
          .then((res) => res.json())
          .then((res) => {
            const body = new Blob([fileData], { type: file.type });
            fetch(res.signedUrl, {
              body,
              method: "PUT",
            }).then(() => {
              fetch("/api/user/image", {
                method: "POST",
                headers: { "Content-Type": "application/json" },
                body: JSON.stringify({
                  objectUrl: res.signedUrl.split("?")[0],
                }),
              });
            });
          });
      }
    };
    reader.readAsArrayBuffer(file);
  };
  return <input onChange={uploadFile} type="file" />;
}
```

## Run the app

Execute the following command to run your application locally:

```shell
npm run dev
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You should now be able to go through the entire workflow of selecting a file, uploading it to S3, and referencing it later by saving it in the database.

```
